welcome to the natural language
processing class this is the
introductory lecture
my name is Drago Mira dev I have a PhD
from Columbia University the course is
going to be approximately 20 hours long
ten weeks of two hours and the intended
audience is primarily students in
computer science in linguistics and
informatics and some other fields such
as mathematics statistics management and
engineering there are other online
courses available in natural language
processing this course however is more
introductory than the course that
Michael Collins taught on Coursera in
2013 and it is more focused on
linguistics and computational resources
than the drafts kid Manning version on
Coursera in 2012 so the first question
that we want to ask ourselves is what is
natural language processing why do we
want to study it the definition of NLP
or natural language processing is very
simple it's the study of the
computational treatment of natural
language when people say natural
language they usually mean human
language doesn't mean for example the
language of some animals in other words
this course is about teaching computers
how to understand but also how to
generate human language let me start by
asking you where this quote came from do
you know this movie it was from the time
when I was a kid you probably haven't
seen this movie it has a person talking
with a computer and the person says open
the pod bay doors Hal and the computer
says I'm sorry Dave I'm afraid I cannot
do that
oh here's the answer to the quiz this is
a quote from 2001 a Space Odyssey it's a
1968 science fiction movie by Stanley
Kubrick and it was written by him and
arthur c clarke it's one of the first
major science fiction movies that talks
about computers that interact with
humans using natural language nowadays
however there are actual applications of
natural language processing to the real
world not just science fiction
I'm going to show you some examples here
the most obvious ones are search engines
all the major search engines such as
Google Yahoo Bing and some other search
engines in other languages like by doing
Chinese Oh use natural language
processing technology to understand your
queries and find the matching documents
another application is question
answering for example a few years ago
IBM's Watson system famously played on
television against the best human
contestants in jeopardy and one there
are nowadays natural language assistance
such as Apple Siri and translation
systems you're probably familiar with
Google Translate there are other
applications by other companies for
example news digest from Yahoo there are
applications to text generation for
example the LA Times applies some
computer software to generate reports
about earthquakes automatically all
those techniques use natural language
processing and many person years have
gone into building those systems now in
the course of 20 hours we're going to
try to figure out what sort of
technologies and what sort of insights
are necessary to build systems like this
let me make some notes here first of all
computers are not inherently designed to
understand human language in fact
they're very confused by human language
some very specific techniques are needed
that would teach computers how to use
human language natural language
processing is the field that teaches
computers how to understand language and
I want to word it that natural language
processing is a very multidisciplinary
field it draws on research in
linguistics which is the study of
language theoretical computer science
mathematics statistics artificial
intelligence and even fields like
psychology and databases and user
interfaces and whatnot so this class has
multiple goals the first goal is to
understand that language processing is
hard you really cannot do a natural
language processing if you don't have a
very intuitive understanding of the
faculties of human language not only do
you need to know that language is
difficult but you also need to
understand why so this is the first
theme of this class the second theme is
to provide the students with an overview
of the key problems in natural language
processing for example machine
translation and parsing the third topic
is to learn about the methods used to
address these problems those techniques
could involve specific statistical
techniques or specific language
resources and finally and just as
importantly we need to understand the
limitations of these methods don't
expect that the techniques that work for
one type of text will work for another
or the techniques that work for one
language will carry over to other
languages so let's start first with a
little bit of background in linguistics
and I want to warn you that this course
is going to spend a lot of time on some
of the linguistic intuition behind
natural language processing so very
often will you see slides that address
specific linguistic issues as they
relate to this field so in communication
people have focused on the interaction
between a speaker and a listener this
theory applies not only to interactions
between computers and humans but also of
interactions between different people so
what does the speaker do the speaker
first has to have an intention of
something that sure he wants to say that
can include a certain goal it can
include some shared knowledge and
beliefs about the topic that they're
going to discuss the next thing is once
the goal has been formulated is to
generate some representation of the
sentence or the discourse that will be
said and the third step is to actually
synthesize and say produce the sentence
that can be done in text or in speech
depending on the system now on the
listener side we have three steps again
the first one is perception that's when
the listener hears or sees the text that
was uttered by the speaker the second
step is the interpretation of what the
speaker said and the interpretation can
be done at the syntactic level which is
the grammatical structure of the
sentence the semantic level which is the
meaning of the sentence or the
pragmatics level which is the purpose of
the sentence what did the speaker intend
to communicate and the third step is
their incorporation of what the speaker
just said this is also known as
internalization or understanding that's
when the listener actually takes some
action or learn something based on what
the speaker just said and both the
speaker and the listener have to have
some common ground for example if you
are in a restaurant you can point to a
certain dish on the menu and say this or
you can talk about a certain person and
say he or she so this is all part of the
shared context between the speaker and
the listener and it is known in
linguistic theory as part of grounding
so basic natural language processing
system has the following structure it
has two components u stands for
understanding that's the part that takes
you from language to computer
representation they often a natural
language processing may only have an
understanding component for example if
you want to ask a question you may just
want to the computer to perform an
action based on it and not answer
anything back to you in other cases you
may have an entire dialogue system which
includes both understanding in
generation in that case the computer
will hear you and then using a technique
called natural language generation
produce a sentence or perhaps a longer
piece of text that would go back to you
now in the next segment we're going to
talk about some specific examples of
text and understand why they present
challenges to computers